All right, next up, we're going to look at the containers method.
This is a method that simply answers the question does this string of text contain some smaller string
of text that we're looking for?
So again, I will clear out what we had here before.
And we'll start over, so I will create a string, and this time, let's see well, I guess I'm going
to call it the same thing I always call it.
But however, I think I'll put like a whole entire, maybe a longer string in here, something like
four score and seven years ago.
For those of you who are not Americans, this is some text from Abraham Lincoln's famous Gettysburg
Address.
All right.
And so what we can do here is, again, we'll do an absolutely system.out.println line and then we will
reference the my text variable.
But this time we will use the contains method here.
So this method takes a character sequence, which basically you can think of it as a string takes a
character sequence as input, and it answers the question of whether or not the text we're looking for
exists in the string here.
So we've got the text fourscore and seven years ago.
So let's say that we pass in the word seven, OK, so we would be asking the question is the string
seven contained within this string?
Yes or no?
And so if we run this?
We get true, meaning yes.
The String seven is indeed contained inside of this string.
Now, let's play with this a little bit.
Let's ask it if the word sevens is contained in this string, so we'll run this again.
False.
OK, so there is no string with sevens, with a z on the end contained in here, so it has to be an
exact match for the sub part there.
OK.
In terms of spaces?
OK, so that's really about all there is to this.
So some reasons why you might want to use a method like this might be that again, user entered some
text and you want to check for the existence of certain strings that you already know to look for.
Again, maybe it could be bad words or could be pretty much anything.
Maybe you're looking for certain keywords and you just want to know, are any of these keywords present
in the string there?
Also, it doesn't have to be text that a user entered.
It could be text that you're reading in from a database or retrieving from what's called a web service
where you write some code that goes out onto the internet and pulls back some text of some sort.
And you're just wanting to check for the presence of certain certain strings or sub strings or things
like that.
So it's a pretty simple method and that's going to cover this topic, and I will see you for the next
one.